---
title: Windows Kernel Exploitation Part 2 - Arbitrary Write
date: 2024-11-10 11:00:00 -0500
categories: [wke, pwn]
tags: [windows, kernel, pwn, wke]
author: oreo
dsecription: Windows Kernel Exploitation Part 2 - Arbitrary Write
---

## Preface
{: .mt-4 .mb-0 }

I kinda skipped the over `Stack Overflows with GS` section since I quickly realized that doing it in x64 is near impossible (at least for me currently) with just a pure vanilla stack buffer overflow. While attempting it, I learned that Structured Exception Handlers are not stored on the stack in 64-bit systems (woohoo Microsoft!!), rather, they're stored in a table *very* far away from the stack. So a simple SEH overwrite with a stack buffer overflow is not possible here. Instead, I will pivot to the pool stuff for the time being, until I decide to load the 32-bit driver and exploit it the way they intended.

## Introduction
{: .mt-4 .mb-0 }

An arbitrary write primitive, or colloquially named as a write-what-where primitive, enables an attacker to arbitrarily write a value to any address we supply. It's quite a powerful primitive and grants the attacker a lot of creativity on how they exploit the application/system. After being inspired be a Off By One Security [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jWIkhg0Ufr4); as a result, my plan of attack will be as follows:

1. Write shellcode to a code-cave in `KUSER_SHARED_DATA` - something like `KUSER_SHARED_DATA+0x800`
2. Obtain and modify the permissions on `KUSER_SHARED_DATA`'s Page Table Entry (PTE)
3. Overwrite `HalDispatchTable+0x8` with the address of our shellcode
4. Call `NtQueryIntervalProfile` to trigger our shellcode

> HackSys and other guides wrote the user-mode address of their shellcode to `HalDispatchTable+0x4` (32 bit arch). I don't think this technique will work in modern windows due to SMEP

Alternatively, we can do something like this:

1. Allocate an executable page of memory in user space
2. Modify that page's PTE and mark it as a kernel page
3. Overwrite `HalDispatchTable+0x8` with the address of our shellcode
4. Call `NtQueryIntervalProfile` to trigger our shellcode

This still gets around SMEP and reduces the amount of kernel writes - it seems arguably easier too, but I'm not sure.

## The Vulnerability

```cpp
typedef struct WRITE_WHAT_WHERE {
    PULONG_PTR What;
    PULONG_PTR Where;
}  WRITE_WHAT_WHERE, *PWRITE_WHAT_WHERE;

(...)

    ProbeForRead((PVOID)UserWriteWhatWhere, sizeof(WRITE_WHAT_WHERE), (ULONG)__alignof(UCHAR));

    What = UserWriteWhatWhere->What;
    Where = UserWriteWhatWhere->Where;

    DbgPrint("[+] UserWriteWhatWhere: 0x%p\n", UserWriteWhatWhere);
    DbgPrint("[+] WRITE_WHAT_WHERE Size: 0x%zX\n", sizeof(WRITE_WHAT_WHERE));
    DbgPrint("[+] UserWriteWhatWhere->What: 0x%p\n", What);
    DbgPrint("[+] UserWriteWhatWhere->Where: 0x%p\n", Where);

(...)

    DbgPrint("[+] Triggering Arbitrary Write\n");

    //
    // Vulnerability Note: This is a vanilla Arbitrary Memory Overwrite vulnerability
    // because the developer is writing the value pointed by 'What' to memory location
    // pointed by 'Where' without properly validating if the values pointed by 'Where'
    // and 'What' resides in User mode
    //

    *(Where) = *(What);

(...)
```

As the comment suggests, the issue with this code is that the developers **DO NOT** check if both the *What* and *Where* pointers reside in user-mode. This allows us, the attacker, to mix-match whether the What/Where pointers exist in kernel- or user-mode; providing us the ability to arbitrarily write anywhere. The ability to write to any address within a specific space is powerful already, but now being able to arbitrarily write in both spaces is like the "Golden Primitive".

## Exploit

Now we have a rough idea on how we're going to get an EoP from our arbitrary write primitive, let's writeout the full exploit

### Acquiring Page Table Entries

### Overwriting HalDispatchTable+0x8

### NtQueryInttervalProfile

## Win

## Remarks and Future ideas

An arbitrary write primitive is quite powerful and allows you to write creative exploits. It can be used to create an arbitrary read, bypass many kernel mitigations, and